Add basic page for troubleshooting app launch failures (#28805)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/runtime-discovery/troubleshoot-app-launch.md

::: zone pivot="os-windows"

```console
You must install or update .NET to run this application.

App: C:\repos\myapp\myapp.exe
Architecture: x64
Framework: 'Microsoft.NETCore.App', version '5.0.15' (x64)
.NET location: C:\Program Files\dotnet\

The following frameworks were found:
  6.0.2 at [c:\Program Files\dotnet\shared\Microsoft.NETCore.App]
```

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="os-linux"

```bash
You must install or update .NET to run this application.

App: /home/user/repos/myapp/myapp
Architecture: x64
Framework: 'Microsoft.NETCore.App', version '5.0.15' (x64)
.NET location: /usr/share/dotnet/

The following frameworks were found:
  6.0.2 at [/usr/share/dotnet/shared/Microsoft.NETCore.App]
```

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="os-macos"

```bash
You must install or update .NET to run this application.

App: /home/user/repos/myapp/myapp
Architecture: x64
Framework: 'Microsoft.NETCore.App', version '5.0.15' (x64)
.NET location: /usr/local/share/dotnet/

The following frameworks were found:
  6.0.2 at [/usr/local/share/dotnet/shared/Microsoft.NETCore.App]
```

::: zone-end

> The error indicates the name, version, and architecture of the missing framework and the location at which it is expected to be installed. In order to run the application, you can [install a compatible framework](#install-a-compatible-framework) at the specified ".NET location". If the application is targeting a lower version than one you have installed and you would like to run it on a higher version, you can also [configure roll-forward behavior](#configure-roll-forward-behavior) for the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The error indicates the name, version, and architecture of the missing framework and the location at which it is expected to be installed. To run the application, you can [install a compatible framework](#install-a-compatible-framework) at the specified ".NET location". If the application is targeting a lower version than one you have installed and you would like to run it on a higher version, you can also [configure roll-forward behavior](#configure-roll-forward-behavior) for the application.
```

### Install a compatible framework

The error message includes a link to download the missing framework. You can follow this link to get the appropriate download page. Alternately, the [.NET downloads](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet) page offers all available versions of .NET. Select the version matching the one listed in the error message.

> Every version of .NET offers three different runtime downloads. The table below shows the frameworks contained by each of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every version of .NET offers three different runtime downloads. The following table shows the frameworks that each contains.
```

| Download name        | Included frameworks |
| -------------------- | ------------------- |

> | ASP.NET Core Runtime | Microsoft.AspNetCore.App<br/>Microsoft.NETCore.App |

Reviewer 2: Nit - always start with NETCore.App

Author: ```suggestion
| ASP.NET Core Runtime | Microsoft.NETCore.App<br/>Microsoft.AspNetCore.App |
```

| .NET Desktop Runtime | Microsoft.NETCore.App<br/>Microsoft.WindowsDesktop.App |
| .NET Runtime         | Microsoft.NETCore.App |

To install a compatible framework, on the download page for the required .NET version, find a runtime download containing the missing framework. Once you have found the appropriate runtime download, you can then either install it using an [installer](#run-an-installer) or [download the binaries](#download-binaries) and extract them to the desired location.

#### Run an installer

If your existing installation of .NET was installed through an installer or package manager, then also installing the required framework through an installer or package manager is likely the simpler option. Otherwise, you can [download binaries](#download-binaries) instead of using an installer.

> In most cases, when the application that failed to launch is using such an installation, the ".NET location" in the error message would point to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases, when the application that failed to launch is using such an installation, the ".NET location" in the error message points to:
```

::: zone pivot="os-windows"
`%ProgramFiles%\dotnet`
::: zone-end
::: zone pivot="os-linux"
`/usr/share/dotnet/`
::: zone-end
::: zone pivot="os-macos"
`/usr/local/share/dotnet/`
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="os-windows,os-macos"
From the **Installers** column of the runtime download, download the installer matching the required architecture. Run the downloaded installer.
::: zone-end
::: zone pivot="os-linux"
Different Linux distributions provide .NET through different package managers. See [Install .NET on Linux](../install/linux.md) for details. Note that preview versions of .NET are not available through package managers.
::: zone-end

> #### Download binaries

Reviewer 2: @richlander - not sure if we want to promote extracting zips as an install experience. Maybe this should point to some overall "how to install" page just noting the typical difference between default location (should use installers/packages) and non-default location in which case I would recommend usage of the `dotnet-install` script.

Reviewer 2: I kind of agree - but to a point. I think the general problem with the current web-site/download/install experience as driven by the host is that we don't point to a specific single download - the user still has to choose (click on the right option on the web-site).

The experience for the installers is reasonable in that the web-site has nice, large pictures and text and so on, and it takes like 1-2 clicks to get the thing (assuming you know what - which is another problem).

Downloading the zips is worse - you have to go through the a "All downloads" page which is overwhelming even for me. In that sense, asking the user to run something like `dotnet-install.ps1 --version 1.2.3 --framework ASP.NET --location C:\private` feels much simpler and also feels much more in-line with the CLI experience which is probably the preferred way for devs anyway. And it's fully scriptable/repeatable (as in - oh I need new SDK for this thing, OK, now it works locally, but what do I add to my CI to make it work there).

But I agree that this is a much larger discussions and should not block these changes in any way.

Author: That's definitely fair. 'All downloads' does have a lot going on and the user needs to map the information in the error message to multiple separate actions/clicks, while the script can just take all the information in a single command.

I'm going to put this in its current state so that we at least have a page. I'll likely add a section pointing at the script later. (And I'm sure we will need some iteration / improvement after.)

From the **Binaries** column of the runtime download, download the binary release matching the required architecture. Extract the downloaded archive to the ".NET location" specified in the error message.

::: zone pivot="os-windows"
For more details on manual installation, see [Install .NET on Windows](../install/windows.md#download-and-manually-install)
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="os-linux"
For more details on manual installation, see [Install .NET on Linux](../install/linux.md#manual-installation)
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="os-macos"
For more details on manual installation, see [Install .NET on macOS](../install/macos.md#download-and-manually-install)
::: zone-end

### Configure roll-forward behavior

> If you already have a higher version of the required framework installed, you can make the application ron on that higher version by configuring its roll-forward behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have a higher version of the required framework installed, you can make the application run on that higher version by configuring its roll-forward behavior.
```

> When running the application, you can specify the [`--roll-forward` command line option](../tools/dotnet.md#runtime-options) or setting the [`DOTNET_ROLL_FORWARD` environment variable](../tools/dotnet-environment-variables.md#dotnet_roll_forward).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running the application, you can specify the [`--roll-forward` command line option](../tools/dotnet.md#runtime-options) or set the [`DOTNET_ROLL_FORWARD` environment variable](../tools/dotnet-environment-variables.md#dotnet_roll_forward).
```

> By default, an application will require a framework matching the same major version that the application targets, but can use a higher minor or patch version. However, application developers may have specified a different behavior. For more details, see [Framework-dependent apps roll-forward](../versions/selection.md#framework-dependent-apps-roll-forward).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, an application requires a framework that matches the same major version that the application targets, but can use a higher minor or patch version. However, application developers may have specified a different behavior. For more details, see [Framework-dependent apps roll-forward](../versions/selection.md#framework-dependent-apps-roll-forward).
```

> Note that, since using this option can let the application run on a different framework version than the one for which it was designed, it may result in unintended behavior in the application due to changes between versions of a framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> Since using this option lets the application run on a different framework version than the one for which it was designed, it may result in unintended behavior due to changes between versions of a framework.
```

::: zone pivot="os-windows"

## Breaking changes

> ### Multi-level lookup disabled for .NET 7.0 and later

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Multi-level lookup disabled for .NET 7 and later
```

> On Windows, before .NET 7.0, the application could search for frameworks in multiple [install locations](https://github.com/dotnet/designs/blob/main/accepted/2020/install-locations.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Windows, before .NET 7, the application could search for frameworks in multiple [install locations](https://github.com/dotnet/designs/blob/main/accepted/2020/install-locations.md).
```

1. Subdirectories relative to:

    - `dotnet` executable when running the application through `dotnet`
    - `DOTNET_ROOT` environment variable (if set) when running the application through its executable (`apphost`)

> 2. Globally registered install location (if set) in `HKLM\SOFTWARE\dotnet\Setup\InstalledVersions\<arch>\InstallLocation`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Globally registered install location (if set) in `HKLM\SOFTWARE\dotnet\Setup\InstalledVersions\<arch>\InstallLocation`.
```

> 3. Default install location of `%ProgramFiles%\dotnet` (or `%ProgramFiles(x86)%\dotnet` for 32-bit processes on 64-bit Windows)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Default install location of `%ProgramFiles%\dotnet` (or `%ProgramFiles(x86)%\dotnet` for 32-bit processes on 64-bit Windows).
```

> This behavior&mdash;multi-level lookup&mdash;was enabled by default, but could be disabled by setting the environment variable `DOTNET_MULTILEVEL_LOOKUP=0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This multi-level lookup behavior was enabled by default but could be disabled by setting the environment variable `DOTNET_MULTILEVEL_LOOKUP=0`.
```

> For applications targeting .NET 7.0 and later, multi-level lookup is completely disabled and only one location&mdash;the first location where a .NET installation is found&mdash;is searched. When running an application through `dotnet`, frameworks are only searched for in subdirectories relative to `dotnet`. When running an application through its executable (`apphost`), frameworks are only searched for in the first of the above locations where .NET is found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For applications targeting .NET 7 and later, multi-level lookup is completely disabled and only one location&mdash;the first location where a .NET installation is found&mdash;is searched. When running an application through `dotnet`, frameworks are only searched for in subdirectories relative to `dotnet`. When running an application through its executable (`apphost`), frameworks are only searched for in the first of the above locations where .NET is found.
```
